README.md, before:

# ChatGTK - OpenAI Chat Client

A GTK-based Linux desktop client for OpenAI's API, featuring voice input/output and a clean interface. This project was primarily generated through AI assistance (Claude, O1, O3-mini).

Disclaimer: Written entirely by AI, I accept no resposibility for what happens to your computer if you choose to run this code!

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rabfulton/ChatGTK
cd ChatGTK
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Or use your package manager to install the dependencies. The application when launched from the terminal will complain about which dependencies are missing.

## Usage
The application looks for an enviroment variable: $OPENAI_API_KEY

You can get API credits by signing up at [OpenAI's platform](https://platform.openai.com/signup). Credits can be purchased from your [OpenAI account page](https://platform.openai.com/account/billing/overview). Credits are very cheap compared to a subscription to the ChatGTP application. You need to create an API key to use the application.

```bash
./chatgtk.sh
```

## Features

- Clean GTK3 interface
- Voice input with Whisper API
- Text-to-Speech output
- Syntax highlighting for code blocks
- LaTeX formula rendering
- Customizable settings
- Conversation history management
- Image generation using Dall-e-3 model
- Export chats to PDF by right-clicking on a chat and selecting "Export Chat"

## Screenshots

*Syntax highlighting*
![Code Feature](screenshots/syntax_highlight.jpg)

*Support for Equations*
![Formulae Feature](screenshots/formula.jpg)

*Image Generation*
![Image Generation](screenshots/images.jpg)

## Python Packages
- openai>=1.0.0
- PyGObject>=3.42.0
- sounddevice>=0.4.6
- soundfile>=0.12.1
- numpy>=1.24.0
- pathlib>=1.0.1

## System Dependencies
- python3
- gtk-3.0
- gtksourceview4
- pulseaudio
- texlive (for LaTeX support)
- dvipng (for LaTeX rendering)

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/rabfulton" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/v2/default-blue.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 60px !important;width: 217px !important;" ></a>

Commit message:

Add a simple install script to create a desktop launcher.

README.md, after:

# ChatGTK - OpenAI Chat Client

A GTK-based Linux desktop client for OpenAI's API, featuring voice input/output and a clean interface. This project was primarily generated through AI assistance (Claude, O1, O3-mini).

Disclaimer: Written entirely by AI, I accept no resposibility for what happens to your computer if you choose to run this code!

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rabfulton/ChatGTK
cd ChatGTK
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Or use your package manager to install the dependencies. The application when launched from the terminal will complain about which dependencies are missing.

## Usage
The application looks for an enviroment variable: $OPENAI_API_KEY

You can get API credits by signing up at [OpenAI's platform](https://platform.openai.com/signup). Credits can be purchased from your [OpenAI account page](https://platform.openai.com/account/billing/overview). Credits are very cheap compared to a subscription to the ChatGTP application. You need to create an API key to use the application.

```bash
./chatgtk.sh
```
Alterantively You can run the install script to add a desktop entry and set up the environment variable.
```bash
./install.sh
```
## Features

- Clean GTK3 interface
- Voice input with Whisper API
- Text-to-Speech output
- Syntax highlighting for code blocks
- LaTeX formula rendering
- Customizable settings
- Conversation history management
- Image generation using Dall-e-3 model
- Export chats to PDF by right-clicking on a chat and selecting "Export Chat"

## Screenshots

*Syntax highlighting*
![Code Feature](screenshots/syntax_highlight.jpg)

*Support for Equations*
![Formulae Feature](screenshots/formula.jpg)

*Image Generation*
![Image Generation](screenshots/images.jpg)

## Python Packages
- openai>=1.0.0
- PyGObject>=3.42.0
- sounddevice>=0.4.6
- soundfile>=0.12.1
- numpy>=1.24.0
- pathlib>=1.0.1

## System Dependencies
- python3
- gtk-3.0
- gtksourceview4
- pulseaudio
- texlive (for LaTeX support)
- dvipng (for LaTeX rendering)

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/rabfulton" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/v2/default-blue.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 60px !important;width: 217px !important;" ></a>
